Normally, web browser clients will only allow for HTTP requests generated by a script (such as fetch() or XML) to be sent to the same website it originated from. This is known as the "same origin policy" (SOP). This is standard in web browsers to prevent websites from maliciously sending HTTP requests to other websites open in the browers. If this policy were not in place, a malicious webpage could send requests to other pages that might have secure information, such as credentials to a banking website. This is known as cross-site request forgery (CSRF). As such, the default behavior in web browsers is to allow only requests that come from the same origin, domain, or scheme (HTTP vs HTTPS). This allows for communication between the backend and frontend of a website while making CSRF more difficult.

This is a necessary policy for security reasons, but it is also extremely restrictive when a website wishes to load resources such as images or typefaces or to integrate some sort of API into their service. For this reason, the security policy known as "Cross origin resource sharing" (CORS) was devised. CORS enables sites to indicate what other domains are safe and allowed to be called. Once a CORS policy is configured, the browser will permit the execution of calls to that domain and not block it. A CORS policy is defined by a series of special headers for requests and responses that spell out whether certain methods should succeed or fail. 

Some requests also have an additional layer of precaution. These requests will perform a "preflight check" using the http OPTIONS method, which asks the server if they have permission to perform an action before the request is actually sent. This is done so as not to reveal any implicit information contained in the request. A request that needs to perform a preflight request is known as a complex request. Other requests, which carry little to no security risk, may be sent without a preflight check and can always be made no matter the origin. These are known as simple requests. Not all browsers are able to process preflight checks, however, and therefore can't distinguish between complex and simple requests.

When a request is sent and the header indicates an allowed domain, the recipient of a request tells the browser to allow the sender to send their requests. 

Some of the most common headers include:
Access-Control-Allow-Headers <- what kind of resources can be sent
Access-Control-Allow-Origin <- what addresses can send requests
Access-Control-Allow-Methods <- what HTTP methods are allowed to be sent
Access-Control-Max-Age <- how long a preflight request can be cached (allowing the sending of multiple requests in that time)


