# Incident: 2024-11-30 12-03-50

## Summary
Between 12-03-50 and 12-24-00, about 22 orders to the pizza factory failed to be fulfilled. The failure stemmed from the design of the factory program.

The change was detected by the Grafana dashboard, which indicated a sudden severe uptick in order failures at the time of the incident, at which point an alert was triggered. The team was alerted and started investigating this issue on minute later at 12-04-50. The issue was resolved by 12-24-00.

## Detection
The incident was detected when the "Pizza purchases / min" dashboard alert "Failures" triggered at the time of the incident. The team received a notification, then an alert a minute later. One minute after the alert, the team responded.

In the future, for critical issues, alerts will be sent out quicker.

## Impact
For 20 minutes, ~21 users were impacted, representing about 23% of orders up until the issue was resolved.

No support cases were raised because we don't have a support system. We'll work on that.

## Timeline
All times are UTC.

- _07:03_ - Notification is sent.
- _07:04_ - Alert is triggered.
- _07:05_ - The team responds.
- _07:24_ - Issue is resolved.

## Response
See the "detection" and "timeline" sections. "The team" in this case means me.

# Root cause
A button on the factory website intended to cause the system to stop responding at a random time between 8AM and 2PM the following day.

## Resolution
The issue was resolved by examining the logs of the failed requests and following the link to the "error report" located in the failure responses.

# Prevention
No internal issues of ours stemmed from this cause, but the same issue occurred in ~30 similar bitcoin pizza services unrelated to our own that were using the same pizza factory service. 

# Action items
1. More stringent alerting policy.
2. Get a new pizza factory.